## Homework Assignments

The `nbgrader` directory contains all the homework assignments prepared to be used with jupyter's nbgrader framework.

### Directory Structure

- All the main homework assignments (instructor master files) are placed in the `source` directory. This is the only directory committed to git.
- The `nbgrader_config.py` holds some of the main configs (mostly default values) for the nbgrader moduel.
- The `header.ipynb` is optional but injects a static content in all the released versions.
- Name of sub-directories `hw1` and `hw2` are controlled by `assignment_id` parameter in homework metadata.
- The `gradebook.db` is automatically generated by nbgrader to keep track of submissions and grades. Removing this will restart the records.

```zsh
course101/
├── gradebook.db
├── nbgrader_config.py
├── gather_submissions.py
├── source
│   ├── header.ipynb
│   └── hw1
│       ├── jupyter.png
│       ├── problem1.ipynb
│       └── problem2.ipynb
├── release
│   └── hw1
│       ├── jupyter.png
│       ├── problem1.ipynb
│       └── problem2.ipynb
├── submitted
│   ├── student_1
│   │   └── hw1
│   │       ├── jupyter.png
│   │       ├── problem1.ipynb
│   │       ├── problem2.ipynb
│   │       └── timestamp.txt
│   └── student_2
│       └── hw1
│           ├── jupyter.png
│           ├── problem1.ipynb
│           ├── problem2.ipynb
│           └── timestamp.txt
├── autograded/
└── feedback/
```

### Workflow

1. Create a notebook with all the solutions and grading mechanims and place it in `source` under the `<assignment_id>` subdirectory.
2. Verify the correctness of the assignment master file by running `nbgrader validate <file_dir>`.
3. Run `nbgrader generate_assignment <assignment_id>` to get the release version of the assignment in `release` directory.
4. (Optionally) run `nbgrader validate --invert <file_dir>` for the release version. TESTS SHOULD FAIL as a sign of success.
5. Distribute the release version to students.
6. Either manually extract and place the collected solutiosn in the appropriate directories under `submitted` or use the provided `gather_submissions.py` to automate this.
7. Run `nbgrader autograde <assignment_id>` to autograde all submitted assignments. This will place them in `autograded` directory.
8. Conduct any manual grading needed either from jupyter notebook's UI or by writing directly to the files.
9. You can generate HTML feedback using `nbgrader feedback <assignment_id>`. You can collect these feedback from `feedback directory.`
